Hello, I'm Shyam Sathvik, and I have my team mate, Neermita Bhattacharya with me.

This video is intended to be a presentation of all the work we've put into our Pattern Recognition and
Machine Learning Cours Project.

Our project aims to tackle the problem of image retrieval while constraining ourselves to
machine learning techniques. 

For the sake of this project, we constrain ourselves to the CIFAR10 dataset, as instructed by our
course instructor Anand Mishra. The CIFAR 10 dataset is an image dataset, consisting of various image
classes of everyday objects and animals. All the images are 32*32*3 pixels in size.

The SOTA for image classification using CIFAR10 is almost close to 100%, but
through our experiments we've found the training with machine learning models to be pretty
scuffed with our maximum accuracy reaching only up to 60% with the limited compute available.

In this project we've extensively explored most kinds of Classification and Clustering Machine Learning Techniques while making sure we employ a wide range of different feature transformation techniques to
to make sure the models capture all the necessary information from the image data including the
textures, the colors, and various other class specific information.

The initial train of thought was to train and use various classification and clustering
machine learning models to implement an image retrieval pipeline. We've also experimented with
simple techniques such as employing cosine similarity, while also experimenting with a 
few weirder techniques such as Fourier Domain Convolutions with Artificial Neural Networks, which was
the limit of Deep Learning Techniques we were allowed to use.

Coming to the specifics of the training, the results of our training have been acceptably good with 
all of our team members reaching an accuracy of 50-60% with the techniques we've each benchmarked
the dataset for. With Histogram of Gradients performing the best out of all the dimensionality
reduction and feature extraction techniques we used.

/// write a little more about performance and results.

We've also employed various clustering based techniques, with t-SNE performing the best
out of all the different feature transformation techniques. K-Means was then used to cluster the 
transformed data.

To implement our image retrieval pipeline, we first trained classification models, which would 
perform inference on the input image sample, which would then predict a label, triggering the retriever
to fetch image samples from the specific label from our image data bank.

This approach could further be tuned with assigning multiple labels to a given image, and then 
using a machine learning model to predict if an input image fits with more than one of those 
labels. Similar images which fit the criterial of labels could then be fetched from the
data bank.

Similary, Clustering models have been used to form clusters of data, and then the retrieval
would simply be performed by returning images from the same cluster as the test sample.

To demonstrate the work we've done, a light-weight adaboost model has been deployed to the 
web, and a simple demonstration page has been made for the same. For our mid term report, we've also
made a simple pyqt5 app to demonstrate the retrieval capabilities of our models.

An input image can be dragged into the drop box, which then retrieves similar images!

And there you go, that concludes our presentation for our course project.

THANK YOU!




